= urban-mapping-api

A simple ruby interface to Urban Mapping's free and premium neighborhood lookup API.

== Installation

  sudo gem install michaeldwan-urban-mapping-api
  
Gem dependencies:

* curb
* json

I know, curb sucks. I will move to HTTParty at some point.

== Examples

To get started you need to require 'urban-mapping-api':

  % irb -rubygems
  irb(main):001:0> require 'urban-mapping-api'
  # => true

Before you do anything, create an instance of UrbanMapping::Interface

  interface = UrbanMapping::Interface.new('my-api-key')
  
For premium API access, include the premium API key

  interface = UrbanMapping::Interface.new('my-api-key', 'my-shared-secred')
  interface.premium_api? 
  #=> true

(If you don't have an api key, go get one at http://developer.urbanmapping.com/accounts/register/)

Now that you have an instance of the interface, you can make calls to the service

  interface.getNeighborhoodsByPostalCode('60654')
  # => [{"name"=>"River North", "city"=>"Chicago", "country"=>"USA", "id"=>3320072, "state"=>"IL"}, ...]
  
  interface.getNeighborhoodsByLatLng(41.882088, -87.624454)
  # => [{"name"=>"The Loop", "city"=>"Chicago", "country"=>"USA", "id"=>3094847, "state"=>"IL"}]

  interface.getNeighborhoodDetail(3094847)
  # => {"wkt_centroid"=>"POINT(-87.6260772332496 41.8782770670931)", "name"=>"The Loop", "city"=>"Chicago"...
  
== Helpful Links

* Urban Mapping http://www.urbanmapping.com/urbanware/neighborhood-database/index.html
* Api Documentation http://developer.urbanmapping.com/docs/neighborhoods
* Register for a free API key http://developer.urbanmapping.com/accounts/register

== Note on Patches/Pull Requests
 
* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a
  future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with rakefile, version, or history.
  (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but
   bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2009 Michael Dwan. See LICENSE for details.
